Alright so for the last few videos with the uncoveted
unqualified exports directive, a required directive, as well
as the required directive with the transient modifier
What we are going to look at now is the qualified exports
directive, identifying friend modules. So what we need to do
first is go to our module-info.java file for the module
or the module.2 tool, so this one here.
We need to make a change to this file. At the moment, you
can see its got exports org.pkg.util on line 4.
I'm gonna change that specifically clearing the semi colon
to org.module.base and a semi colon on the end.
So in this instance, I've changed the exports directive
to a qualified directive, specifying that the package will
only be read by the friends we specify after the 2 keywords.
In this case, I've defined the module org.module.base
as a friend to the org.pkg.util module.
Let's rebuild org.module.base.
And nothing should change for org.module.base and you
can see we didn't get any errors.
Now it should execute with the same result as before.
How about throw a Base Entity and run it just to make sure.
I'm scrolling over and you can see we're still running
in this module with the -p and the -m.
So everything's working as it should be.
Alright so moving on now, lets create a fourth module
org.module.concrete.
We'll create our module info as per normal.
Then I'm gonna add a "requires" in this module-pro.java
for our org.module.concrete module
requires org.module.util.
We need to allow IntelliJ to add that dependency
to this file.
Right, next we want to create a class in this module.
We're gonna come down and right click the source folder,
new Java class, org.pkg.concrete.Couple.
Alright so let's paste in some code.
So I can see we've got a compiler error over here, so
if I highlight that, you can see package org.pkg.util is
declared in our module org.module.util, which does not
export it to module org.module.concrete.
But it could get IntelliJ to do it instead.
Let's go back and check out that module info.java file
for org.module.util again.
And you can see we've just got the one line there but if we
go back again to our Couple, this time we'll get IntelliJ
to add it for us.
We'll go back and check that out.
And you can see what its done there on line 4.
Basically, org.module.Concrete was added to the qualified
exports directive. Now you'll note that the modules
defined as friends are listed in a commented limited list
after the two keywords.
A package name can only be in a single exports directive
but can be exported to multiple friend modules.
You'll probably have a few correct that Couple doesn't
compile into the org.module.Concrete module.
So if I actually remove this, I did have an error before
this was added, got an error again, that won't actually
work.
So I'll go back and undo that change. So I put it back,
the error disappears.
Alright so next now, let's change this file slightly.
So I'm gonna come down here and add a semi colon in that
line and do an exports org.pkg.util to org.module.concrete.
So I'm gonna hover over the error, I'm gonna duplicate
exports org.pkg.util.
So attempting to define moldable friends for the same
package in different directives is a compile error.
The only valid way is one exports directive and a
commented list of friends as we had previously.
So if you see an exam question in another format,
you can mark that as incorrect.
Now let us undo that, go back to how we had it, which is
now valid.
Alright so in the last two videos and the last one,
I've demonstrated how to create and declare modules
using IntelliJ's features, as well as editing the
module-info.java files manually, and we've used a
combination of some of the directives available.
Moving on, in the next video, I'm gonna discuss some
unusual features about modules.
See you in the next video.